I want you to hit me as hard as you can
hi I'm Luke Ryan for Joe Blow calm and
welcome to movie endings explain where
we'll be taking a look at someone the
more ambiguous and discussed movie
endings that have left audiences
debating their true meaning long after
the credits have rolled in 1980
visionary film director Stanley Kubrick
delivered his new movie The Shining
based on the 1977 novel of the same name
by legendary author Stephen King widely
regarded these days as one of the
greatest horror movies of all time the
reception when it was released was a
little bit different to say the least
critics were mixed and Kubrick was even
nominated for a Razzie for worst
director Stephen King was allegedly
banned by contract and not criticized to
film publicly but in late years began
filtering out his opinion on Kubrick's
interpretation of his book more recently
in the forward to his sequel novel to
the shining in 2013 dr. sleep he said
Stanley Kubrick's movie which many seem
to remember for reasons I have never
quite understood as one of the scariest
films they have ever seen if you've seen
the movie but not read the novel you
should note that dr. sleep follows the
latter which in my opinion is the true
history of the Torrance family Kubrick
ever the author wasn't content to just
transpose the novel to the screen as is
and found his own interpretation of the
story and characters The Shining follows
Jack Torrance along with his wife Wendy
and son Danny as they move into the
Overlook Hotel for the winter with Jack
stepping into the role of the off-season
caretaker in the empty mountaintop hotel
as the family unit begin to adjust to
the isolation of living at the Overlook
Jack takes the opportunity to pursue his
writing ambitions
slowly but surely strange things begin
to happen at the hotel and Jack begins
to slip into madness his son Danny has a
special power which the hotel chef
Halloran senses telepathically revealing
to the young boy that he has it too the
manager of the Overlook
Hotel warned Jack before he took the job
that the previous caretaker Charles
Grady couldn't handle the position and
after succumbing to cabin fever murdered
his family and killed himself but there
seems to be more than just the specter
of Charles Grady looming over the hotel
as the Torrance family discovers
apparent ghosts appeared to Jack
especially in the Gold Room where time
seems to wind back and where Jack seems
to have stepped back with it by the end
of the story Jack is completely
surrendered to either his own murderous
tendencies coupled with cabin fever or
perhaps the psychotic and supernatural
collective of the Overlook Hotel itself
after unsuccessfully attempting to
murder his own family Jack ends up
freezing to death following a chase with
Danny around the snowy maze outside the
hotel so what's there to really explain
well the film is supernatural and beyond
even those elements there are so many
details to explore in Kubrick's version
of The Shining books have been written
about it and films have been made solely
based around the many theories that have
sprouted up since the film's release as
complex and dense as the psychology and
supernatural elements of the shining can
be and to a further degree can be read
into the actual quote-unquote ending of
the film is a quiet haunting and
baffling one inside the hotel the camera
slowly pans in on a wall full of picture
frames eventually we see centered in the
frame a photograph from a July 4th
celebration dated in 1921 and at the
front of the group of revelers Jack
Torrance stands smiling like a Cheshire
cats at first you wonder if it really is
Jack and then the shot fades into a
closer view so that there can be no
mistaking it there is Jack Torrance at
the Overlook Hotel 60 years ago
[Music]
so what does it all mean one theory is
that the hotel is its own omnipotent
presence that absorbed to Jack's essence
which is why he appears in the
photograph he wasn't able to free
himself from its grasp and now his
spirit is trapped forever inside the
hotel and indeed the photograph another
theory is that Jack is reincarnated but
that itself could take many different
forms as an idea many believed that
Jack's soul is forever caught in a
reincarnation loop and that he always
ends up at the hotel bound to a
murderous end during the sequence with
Jack in the Gold Room bathroom he
encounters Delbert Grady a butler who
offers this chilling line of dialogue
mr. Grady you were the caretaker here
I'm sorry to differ with you sir
but you are the caretaker you've always
been the caretaker
I should know that I've always been here
[Music]
the implication that Jack has always
been the caretaker is certainly a head
scratcher and a lot of times working out
the exact particulars can ruin the eerie
effect of such haunting ideas and movies
Stanley Kubrick had this to say about
analyzing the supernatural in films a
story of the supernatural cannot be
taken apart and analyzed too closely the
ultimate test of its rationale is
whether it is good enough to raise the
hairs on the back of your neck if you
submit it to a completely logical and
detailed analysis it will eventually
appear absurd in the original ending of
the film which was changed quite a bit
from the novel we were to get an
epilogue showing Wendy and Danny
recuperating in a hospital to assure the
audience that they had survived the
manager of the Overlook Hotel Stuart
Ullman tells Wendy that the hotel was
investigated thoroughly by the police he
says they didn't find the slightest
evidence of anything at all out of the
ordinary and it's perfectly
understandable for someone to imagine
such things when they've been through
something like you have given the fact
that Halloran was brutally murdered this
raises yet another question and includes
Olman as another piece in the mysterious
puzzle of the Overlook hotels dangerous
power thus the scene was removed by
Kubrick there were few Polaroid images
survived another element of the ending
that was also removed was a title card
over the photograph shown of Jack in
1921 that was to read the Overlook Hotel
would survive this tragedy as it had so
many others we had learned of one
tragedy taking place with the man who
murdered his family some years ago but
many others implies while many others in
one earlier serration of the script Jack
finds a scrapbook in the hotel filled
with clippings of the many tragedies
that had taken place there but it was
never filmed yet another theory is that
Jack becomes possessed up to a point as
does every caretaker who arrives and
that the ghostly inhabitants begin to
see him as the everlasting caretaker but
we see Jack very clearly in the
photograph
it's meant to be him and it's meant to
as Kubrick said raised the hairs on the
back of your neck he only ever briefly
addressed this aspect of the film saying
this the ballroom photograph at the very
end suggests the
incarnation of Jack
so that's about as official as it can
get the explanation as per the director
is that Jack was reincarnated in the
novel Jack ends up dying in an explosion
due to a faulty boiler which Kubrick
found to be very cliched instead looking
for a more interesting end to his
version of the story and yet Kubrick
didn't actually write the film by
himself
it was co-written with Diane Johnson who
had this to say about the film's
conclusion there is an explanation for
the photo though it's a bit strange and
paradoxical because it's both real and
unreal the idea that Jack was always at
the hotel in some earlier incarnation
Jack had somehow been the creature of
the hotel through reincarnation at the
same time we're meant to experience it
in the now there's no way of resolving
that it's meant to be magical so in the
case of The Shining I believe it really
is best to go more with the feeling of
the reveal at the end as opposed to the
logic because it really is difficult to
make complete sense of it some feel that
there were only ever two jacks that the
jack we see in the film is a
reincarnation of the man in the 1921
photo with the concept of doubles being
read into through many scenes in the
film though this would mean that the
photo with Jack in 1921 would have
always been there and he would have
thought that someone would have noticed
it could even be that the Phantom Butler
was merely trying to nudge the insanity
that was building up within Jack just
that little bit further just because
someone says something doesn't mean it's
true especially not a ghost maybe Jack
was never really there before but much
like the previous caretaker who murdered
his family he was sucked into the evil
that permeates the Overlook Hotel and by
the conclusion he was bound to the place
forever immortalized in a snapshot his
spirit encapsulated in a chilling smile
that hides a horrifying past what do you
think of the ending to the shining do
you have your own interpretation or do
you prefer not to read into it so
literally let us know in the comments
down below and stay tuned for more
original content on the Joe Blow videos
channel and thanks for watching
[Music]
you